# Siskel-Ebert
Database and directory of reviews by Gene Siskel and Roger Ebert

A google sheets version is here:

https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1_qK2l2p1jxHqrzhZUpQNK85twA70lcnC/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=101539925055481867920&rtpof=true&sd=true

Gene Siskel and Roger Ebert reviewed over 9,400 movies in print and on various iterations of their show. Ebert joined the Chicago Sun-Times in 1967, while Siskel started reviewing for the Chicago Tribune in 1969. Their show debuted in 1975 and was initially only broadcast in the Chicago area once a month. By 1980, it was shown every week all over the country. In 1982 they moved to a new production company owned by Siskel's employer, the Tribune. But in 1986, they decided to go into syndication with Disney-owned Buena Vista. Coincidentally, the Tribune significantly reduced the number of reviews they printed by Siskel, although they had already had other reviewers sharing his page at least two years before that.

Both reviewed about 200 movies a year until Siskel's death. Ebert was usually more generous with stars, averaging about 2.75, while Siskel was closer to 2.5; they agreed about 75% of the time, giving "two thumbs up" or equivalent to about 40% of movies. When they disagreed, Siskel was the one giving thumbs down about 60% of the time. In the late 90s Siskel was diagnosed with cancer, but continued to make regular appearances on the show, missing only a few episodes after surgery. His final review was for "She's All That", wherein he stated a hope that he would see the starlet's next film.

After Siskel died in 1999, Ebert reviewed more movies, averaging closer to 300 a year. Ebert lost his voice in 2006. This did not permanently reduce his output, although it did seem to make him more generous with star ratings. Ebert obtained an online presence via his written reviews and blog, and generated quite a lot of conversation for someone with no jawbone. Ebert's last print review was for "To the Wonder", printed almost exactly 46 years after his first for the Sun-Times.

This database is a list of movies that were reviewed by either or both. Initially, I only intended to include the thumbs up or down, but then added the star ratings, and the "best of" each year, and whether the movie was a "dog of the week". As some of this information was hard to find (in particular, page clippings for Siskel reviews), I began adding citations. The link columns could have been designed better. There should really be space for several links for each reviewer. There may be movies missing, and other improvements that could be made. If anyone likes, they can contact me and I will try to make any small improvements I can. But really I want people to copy this database and improve on it in their own way.

I must thank all of my data sources. A Rotten Tomatoes database is downloadable on Kaggle[[1]](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/andrezaza/clapper-massive-rotten-tomatoes-movies-and-reviews), which includes most of Ebert's reviews. I also used the Wayback Machine[[2]](https://archive.org/) to recover some Ebert and Siskel reviews that had gotten lost during various website changes. I also used newspaper clippings generated by various users on newspapers.com[[3]](https://chicagotribune.newspapers.com/clippings/?query=siskel&ymd-start=1968-01-01&ymd-end=1969-12-31&sort=paper-date-asc), which would otherwise require paying for that site's service. I of course used many links from rogerebert.com[[4]](https://www.rogerebert.com/) and the Tribune.[[5]](https://www.chicagotribune.com/) And many videos have been uploaded at a fan site[[5]](https://siskelebert.org/) and all over Youtube.

Besides the main tab, there are also a few summary statistics that I found interesting. Indeed, I wanted to check a few claims Ebert made on talk shows about who gave thumbs up more often and how often they agreed. Another tab mentions any improvements I would make if I was to start over, which I won't. And lastly there's a tab with various links that don't belong anywhere in particular.
